Learning Git & Gtthub

Git ---
Git is a version control system that is used to track changes to your files.
It is a free and open-source software that is available for Windows, macOS, and Linux. 
Remember, GIT is a software and can be installed on your computer.

Github ---
Github is a web-based hosting service for Git repositories. 
Github is an online platform that allows you to store and share your code with others. 
It is a popular platform for developers to collaborate on projects and to share code.



Version COntrol --- (VCS)
Version control systems are used to manage the history of your code. 
They allow you to track changes to your files and to collaborate with others. 
Consider it as a checkpoint in game.


Repositry ---
A repository is a collection of files and directories that are stored together. 
It is a way to store and manage your code.
Also called as Folder.


Commit  ---
commit is a way to save your changes to your repository. 
It is a way to record your changes and make them permanent.
Write -> Add -> Commit

init (work)  -- dict --> Repo ---> Commit.


gitignore  ---
Gitignore is a file that tells git which files and folders to ignore. 
It is a way to prevent git from tracking certain files or folders. 

ex. like '.env' file it store API secrets keys, payemnt gatewaycode etc.

create file named .gitignore the write the files naeme inside. but .gitignores always get tracked but inside data not.


alternate to make file folder untrack inside folder make a file name '.gitkeep'




BAsic COmmmand ---

git --version
git status

git config --global user.email "your-email@example.com"
git config --global user.name "Your Name"

git config --list

git init                --- create Folder

Remove-Item -Recurse -Force .git     --- it remove git only from dir.

git add .           --- add all files 
git add filename    --- add specific file

git commit -m "commit message"             ---  -m means massage

git log                --- passbook
                press E then q to back to terminal

git log --oneline                  --- give quick log 


